---
title: Node Classification Metadata
description: Optional metadata to describe the organizational role of an ENS node
contributors: 
    - 1a35e1.eth
    - jkm.eth
ensip:
  created: "2025-12-15"
  status: draft
---

# ENSIP-25: Node Classification Metadata

## Abstract

This ENSIP proposes a standard method for using text records to declare the role of an ENS name/subname (node). Two types of standardized text records are introduced, which provide for labeling the role of node against a larger organizational structure, and for defining the structure of additional, context-dependent attributes that may be appended to that node.

## Motivation

In practice, ENS subnames are often used to represent organizational structures. For example, an ENS name belonging to an individual might have a subname which points to the individual's cold wallet, and another which points to a hot wallet that they use for voting in on-chain governance. DAOs or other on-chain organizations might have a top-level ENS name that represents the group as a whole, with subnames created to represent treasuries, smart contracts, working groups, committees, and other entities within the organization. This ENSIP offers a way to add metadata to each of those nodes to declare its role in the larger organizational strucuture, and to append context-specific metadata which is machine-readable and standardized, allowing dynamic discovery and recognition of the role each subname is meant to fulfill.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

### Metadata Records

This ENSIP builds on ENSIP-5 and ENSIP-24, and uses text records stored in the resolver set for each node to provide additional metadata for that node. We define two new unqualified, global key names (`class` and `schema`) which are hereby reserved for use in accordance with this ENSIP. Additional metadata attributes can also be added to a node and stored as text or data records, with their key values declared by the `schema` entry (explained below).

It is expected that each node will be configured to resolve to one or more on-chain addresses, and the metadata attributes attached to a node are understood to apply to the entity or entities represented by those addresses.

### `class` Text Record

Nodes can specify a text record with the key name of `class`, the value of which serves to label the general role or purpose of that node. These values are largely intended to be useful to humans who wish to understand what importance to give to each node, but can also be used programmatically in filtering and recognizing categories of node for automated systems.

The value of this record MUST be pascal case, using only alphabet characters. Values SHOULD be limited to those outlined in the following table to maximize compatability across the ecosystem, however other values MAY be used for specialized use cases. 

| `class` Value | Meaning |
|---|---|
| Agent | This node represents a software-controlled entity |
| Application | This node represents a software service, product, or offering |
| Committee | This node represents an ongoing committee which is tasked with conducting some activity |
| Contract | This node points to a smart contract |
| Council | This node represents a group that has been formed by a larger entity to conduct some activity |
| Delegate | This node represents a voter in on-chain governance, who may or may not have been delegated voting power from others |
| Group | This node's main purpose is to group together multiple child nodes |
| Org | This node represents an organization, or an organizational grouping within a larger org |
| Person | This node represents an individual human |
| Treasury | This node's main purpose is to hold funds which are collectively owned and/or managed |
| Wallet | This node's main purpose is to send, receive, and/or store funds |
| Workgroup | This node represents a work group or task force that has been formed by a larger entity to conduct some activity |

It is understood that all on-chain addresses could have the ability to perform a base set of actions, including:
* sending and receiving funds
* calling smart contracts
* publishing new smart contracts
* providing signatures

Therefore, `class` designations like `contract` and `wallet` should only be interpreted as declaring that node's main purpose in the context of the organizational structure; nodes that do not use one of these labels can still be smart contracts and can manage funds, and the same address can be pointed to by multiple nodes, each with a different `class` designation and metadata describing a different aspect of that address/account.

### `schema` Text Record

Nodes can specify a text record with the key name of `schema`, the value of which points to a JSON-formatted schema which declares which metadata attributes can be added to the node as text or data records, in addition to the global text records already specified in ENSIP-5. The value of `schema` MUST start with one of the following prefixes, followed by the appropriate value:

* `ipfs://` - followed by the ipfs URI pointing to the JSON payload
* `https://` - followed by the http(s) URI pointing to the JSON payload
* `json:` - followed by the schema encoded in JSON format
* `cbor:` - followed by the schema encoded in CBOR format

### Schema Payload

If a schema is provided for a node, it specifies which additional metadata attributes are expected to be provided for that node, stored as text or data records. Schemas MUST follow the JSON Schema specification, version 2020-12, and describe a single-level object in which property names match the text or data record key names. Attribute key names MUST use camel case.

The schema's `title` property SHOULD match the intended class of the node, even if a `class` text record is not specified. If a `class` text record also exists and conflicts with the schema's title, the value from the `class` text record MUST be used as the node's class, however the schema is still valid for the purpose of interpreting attribute metadata.

The schema's `description` property, if provided, describes this class's organizational role, similar to the class descriptions listed in the table above.

The following custom keywords can be included for any attribute:

| Property | Accepted values | Description |
|---|---|---|
| recordType | "text" \| "data" | Indicates whether the record is stored as `text` (ENSIP-5) or `data` (ENSIP-24) (default: `text`) |
| nested | boolean | Indicates that nested key-value pairs may be stored (see below) (default: `false`) |

#### Basic schema example:

```
{
  "title": "Person",
  "description": "This node represents an individual human",
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "firstName": {
      "type": "string",
      "description": "The person's first name.",
      "recordType": "text"
    },
    "lastName": {
      "type": "string",
      "description": "The person's last name."
    },
    "proofOfHumanity": {
      "type": "string",
      "description": "A signed attestation of proof of humanity.",
      "recordType": "data"
    }
  }
}
```




//TODO: attributes that have a variable/discriminator (e.g. statement[body])



## Backwards Compatibility

This proposal is built upon existing ENSIPs and does not affect existing ENS functionality. It introduces no breaking changes.

## Security Considerations

None.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

[ERC-165]: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-165

